---
layout: post
[//]: # Title & Author, try to  use [""] quotations around text. (optional, just formality).
title:  "A Band’s Balance of Work and the Stage Pt. 2: Saint Ivy"
author: "Katie Parisi"
[//]: # every post needs a category, if there isnt an apparent one, use [misc].
categories: [ reviews ]
[//]: # if there is no photo to add, instead use a gradient from [none] folder by picking a number from 1-10. (all gradients are .jpg)
image: ./assets/images/posts/saint-ivy.jpg
imagecred: "@saintivyband on Instagram"
[//]: # see "Tags" for usable tags.
tags: []
---
You probably haven’t heard from the newest band on campus, but trust, you will soon. Founded by two CSArts Juniors, the band Saint Ivy gives its takes on classics from The Beatles to the Pixies to Weezer.

Over the summer, Eli Eisenberg, Chase Timmons, and Marcelo Alves assembled Saint Ivy, anxious to grow an audience and take advantage of their musical talents. 

Sadly, band member Marcleo decided to branch off from CSArts and transfer schools, but that didn’t stop the friends from putting together a thriving and extraordinary band.

CSArts provided ample opportunities for the three boys to indulge in their common interests. Now, Chase, Eli, and Marcelo are climbing their way up the pyramid of student bands in their matching black suits and sunglasses, as well as the countless other bands in the LA area. The velvet tone of Marcelo’s voice and the captivating performances from the bassist and drummer do nothing but demonstrate the musical expertise the three boys have put countless hours into perfecting.

The two currently-enrolled band members, Eli and Chase, graciously opened up about the lessons they have learned as students at an arts school. The bassist, Eli Eisenberg, talked a lot about “collaboration” and how it benefits the growth of their band outside of school. Chase also shared that the “music theory” their conservatory teachers ingrain in them is vital to improving their success as a band. 

Unfortunately, time management was, once again, a topic of discussion. It was one that highlighted the main struggle as a student of CSArts; there are not enough hours in the day. Thankfully, the band shares similar time frames in which they are able to practice. Eli said that weekends are the perfect time to get together. The two band members also expressed their gratitude for the practice rooms their teachers provide. 

> Mr. Broberg does a good job of making us play for our classmates,” 

Eli said. Their expertise shines through their performances and demonstrates how having the space to improve and perform benefits the band’s growth in “stage presence”.

Finally, band members made a point to show their appreciation for the school's support and the uplifting community that has surrounded them. 

> CSArts students are always there supporting us,” 

Eli said. School spirit has provided Saint Ivy with the confidence to continue their pursuit of growing their band. 

Remember to stay tuned for Saint Ivy’s next gig! Check out their instagram page at [saintivyband](https://www.instagram.com/saintivyband) so you don’t miss out on their exciting opportunities to indulge in creating your own merch and inspirational fundraisers.
 