---
layout: post
[//]: # Title & Author, try to  use [""] quotations around text. (optional, just formality).
title:  "AP. v.s. CCC"
author: "Rio A. Lee"
[//]: # every post needs a category, if there isnt an apparent one, use [misc].
categories: [ essays ]
[//]: # if there is no photo to add, instead use a gradient from [none] folder by picking a number from 1-10. (all gradients are .jpg)
image: ./assets/images/posts/none/4.jpg
imagecred: ""
[//]: # see "Tags" for usable tags.
tags: []
---
CSArts students are getting a head start for college with two different options to earn college credit early. These two different avenues are Advanced Placement or “AP classes” and college classes on the CSArts campus from Citrus College, located in Glendora. But there are differences between the two options.

The common avenue for credit is through AP classes. The Advanced Placement Course prepares students throughout the year to take the College Board Exams annually in May. Students pay to take the test for college credit. Exams are graded on a scale of 1-5. Most colleges will give credit for test scores of 3 and up. The positive aspect is that students can get a good grade in the class and fail the AP exam with no effect on the semester grade. Scores of 1 and 2 will not give you college credits, but do not affect grades on the transcripts. 

> I would say that the AP program does offer some advantages, especially for students not yet ready for the pace of an actual college class. A student does not have to take the AP exam in order to take an AP class and receive the letters AP on their transcript,” 

Mr.Turf, a CSArts AP World teacher said.

Citrus College classes, however, directly affect a college transcript for high school students. In partnership with Citrus College, CSArts is able to host full blown college classes on campus! This cuts the college board out of the equation entirely and allows grades in the class to count directly to college credit. These courses also allow teachers freedom to go further in depth on topics because they are not preparing students for a national test. This means they can adjust accordingly if students are falling behind. But it is important to remember that this is a college class. It is rigorous and students will be graded like college students. This means deadlines and assignments come a lot harder and faster than they do in regular high school classes. So, missing one assignment can mean playing catch up for the rest of the semester.

Combine that with the different grading system, it can definitely cause anxiety for students.

In recent years, there has been a push by students and faculty to phase out A.P. classes. With exams such as the SAT’s no longer being required to apply to 4-year colleges and the $96 dollar price tag on the AP exams, students are gravitating towards Citrus College classes. 

> I am supportive of the moving away from A.P. classes because of the focus on the AP Exams,” 

Mr. Pegan, instructor for Citrus College U.S.History, said. 

> Particularly in the social sciences I’ve found that the A.P. Exams are not a perfect reflection of what a typical college level history class would have students complete. I also am mindful of the price associated with A.P. Exams. I think the push away from A.P. classes is driven both by a reflection on the value of courses for students and the role of an organization like the College Board in providing access to advanced courses. In addition, it is driven by fewer colleges accepting A.P. exam scores or placing more restrictions on their acceptance.” 
      
CSArts may run into difficulty adding more Citrus College courses because the college requires more extensive education in order to instruct at the college level. 

> At CSArts-SGV, we have academic and conservatory staff that already hold a content-specific master's degree (or equivalency at the approval of Citrus College) that enables them to teach at the community college level. Having a content-specific master's degree is not common for educators working at the secondary level (high school). If CSArts-SGV were to entirely replace AP classes with Citrus College courses, then a teacher would have to at least have their master's degree in that subject, earn content equivalency by Citrus College, or operate the class run by a Citrus College professor,” 

Mr. Turf said.
     
The move towards getting college credit in high school is a popular goal; however, the road to get there is tough and grueling especially for secondary instructors. The goal in California is to provide students early and inexpensive college education as an investment into the state's future. If you have more questions regarding college credit, guidance counselors or the A.P/CC students on campus will have more information on the best route for you!