---
layout: post
[//]: # Title & Author, try to  use [""] quotations around text. (optional, just formality).
title:  "Seasonal Affective Disorder"
author: "Luna Martinez-Granilo"
[//]: # every post needs a category, if there isnt an apparent one, use [misc].
categories: [ misc ]
[//]: # if there is no photo to add, instead use a gradient from [none] folder by picking a number from 1-10. (all gradients are .jpg)
image: ./assets/images/posts/none/5.jpg
imagecred: ""
[//]: # see "Tags" for usable tags.
tags: []
---

Seasonal Affective Disorder, otherwise known as SAD or seasonal depression is a relatively common effect of shorter days with sunlight and colder weather. It can affect anyone, but, statistically, it is more common for those in their 20’s and 30’s. The combination of weather changes, less sunshine, and the onslaught of homework can affect students, even here in “sunny” California. 

> I just end up feeling really depressed and I find it really difficult to get any work done. Then I end up feeling guilty, because I am not being productive,” 

said an anonymous CSArts student. 

This is not an uncommon occurrence of SAD and the slew of work students have during this time of year.

Although SAD is common, there are ways to help those who are affected by it. Doctors encourage those with seasonal depression to make sure they are getting exercise, outside, if the sun is shining. Sun provides us with Vitamin D as well. In the winter, it may be difficult to get enough vitamin D, so doctors suggest vitamin supplements. Wide spectrum lights simulate sunlight by using special light bulbs and can also make quite a difference. They can be found on Amazon. Most importantly, If you or anyone you know is struggling with SAD, you are not alone. 

Here are a few resources to help!

- Reach out to your teachers and counselors!
- [Suicide Hotline Number](https://988lifeline.org)
- [Crisis Text Line](https://www.crisistextline.org/)