---
layout: post
[//]: # Title & Author, try to  use [""] quotations around text. (optional, just formality).
title:  "The Dubs and Snubs of the 95th Oscars"
author: "Griffin Stenzel"
[//]: # every post needs a category, if there isnt an apparent one, use [misc].
categories: [ events ]
[//]: # if there is no photo to add, instead use a gradient from [none] folder by picking a number from 1-10. (all gradients are .jpg)
image: ./assets/images/posts/oscars-95.jpg
imagecred: "SheKnows"
[//]: # see "Tags" for usable tags.
tags: []
---
At the 95th Academy Awards, Everything Everything All at Once lived up to its name. This genre-bending film took home seven Oscars, including Best Picture, Best Director, and several acting awards. Other successful movies were The Whale, which garnered two awards, one of which was for Brendon Fraser’s acting comeback, and All Quiet on the Western Front, which won many technical awards. 

CSArts students reflected on the record-breaking night and who they wished had won. Rhys Shaw (ACT ‘23) was overjoyed with Everything Everywhere All at Once’s win. 

> 1,000% Everything Everywhere All at Once deserved to win. I think it's a very unconventional movie. And it tells a story in a way that we've never seen before, that hasn't been told that has been needing to be told. It's been a great platform for much-needed Asian representation in mainstream media. It revived the career of Ke Huy Quan, who deserved it more than anybody else. It allowed Jamie Lee Curtis to go beyond the Halloween franchise and extend into what can be seen as more prestigious acting. And it cemented Michelle Yeoh as not only an Asian actress but also an important piece of American cinema,” 

he said.

Samantha Thomas (CW ‘24) loved seeing Sarah Polley win for her adapted screenplay of Women Talking, but wished it got more Oscar love. 

> It has incredibly powerful performances that got zero attention from Rooney Mara, Jessie Buckley, Claire Foy — and I think that it’s a movie tackling such a difficult topic that typically in Hollywood is so exacerbated and exploitative. Also, the music was beautiful. The score heightens the experience of the movie and truly went out of its way to highlight the dread that these women feel, and I’m sad that it did not get nominated for Best Original Score,” 

she said. 

There was a sense of CSArts students being more passionate about movies this year, compared to last year. That was reflected in the ratings as well. Ratings jumped from last year’s Oscars by 12% compared to last year’s dismal ratings. Nearly 20 million people tuned in from everywhere, all at once, to celebrate cinema on the big screen.