---
#http://docs.csartisan.org/docs/contributing/

title: "Sade: 30 Years of Music"
author: "Natalie Merino"
categories: [ misc ]
image: ./assets/images/posts/sade.jpg
imagecred: ""
tags: []
date: 2024-11-01 12:27:00
---
If you haven’t listened to Sade’s music, her unique voice and songs can lift and break hearts. 30 years later, Sade’s back with a song for her transgender son and a new album.   

Sade’s song, “Young Lion,” is an ode to her transgender son, Izaak Theo Adu. It’s part of compilation album titled, TRAИƧA. It includes more than 100 artists with songs to support transgender awareness.

Sade is also releasing an entirely new album almost 30 years to the day from her hit album, The Best of Sade.  It is the best, so, put it on your playlist and you won’t be sorry.    

From her mellifluous voice to simultaneously sweet and somber lyrics, her 1994 album was a hit with critics and listeners, featuring songs like “Sweetest Taboo,” “Is it a Crime,” and her biggest hit, “Smooth Operator.” 

In “Is It a Crime”, we’re met with poetic lyrics: “My love is wider, wider than Victoria Lake,  My love is taller, taller than the Empire State, It dives, it jumps, and it ripples like the deepest ocean.” Paired with Sade’s strong voice and background saxophone riffs, the song is beautiful and sensual. The song , “Kiss of Life” is also a standout song with stunning lyrics like: “There must have been an angel by my side / Something heavenly led me to you / He built a bridge to your heart, all the way” and a piano opening induction that is an alluring, intimate love song. 30 years later, Sade’s undeniable prowess still holds up. 

So, look for both in the next month or two as Sade proves herself to be a current artist calling for acceptance and songs that are effortlessly timeless.
