---
#http://docs.csartisan.org/docs/contributing/

title: "Club Rush 2024: Rushing Back"
author: "Salvador Villagomez"
categories: [ events ]
image: ./assets/images/posts/club-rush-2024.jpg
imagecred: ""
tags: []
---
This year's club rush was an amazing event and an opportunity to connect with other students. Throughout the later part of the week, clubs were set up in the 100's, 200's, and the Quad. 	

There are over 90 clubs to choose from this semester! Remember, most clubs will let you just try them for 1 or 2 days, so you don’t need to commit to them until you are ready, so there is no problem with just looking.

To those of you who are running your own clubs: remember to be as welcoming as possible to everyone who wants to join and to stay committed to the groups you form. It’s important for you to hold the clubs together because, for a lot of people, the clubs are a huge part of the community. 

Each day of club rush had a different theme. Wednesday was “affinity and academics,” Thursday was” community,” and today a large portion of the clubs were centered around being social. If you weren’t able to check out all of the clubs, we’ve put together a list for you! 

- Animal Crossing 
- Art Club
- ASMR Club 
- Board Game Club 
- Canned Peaches Productions 
- Golf Club 
- Comic Discussion 
- Cookies and Movies 
- Crochet Club
- Disney Parks Club
- Don’t Tripp Magazine 
- Fashion Club
- Filmmaking Club
- Studio Ghibli Club 
- Improv Club 
- Just Dance Club 
- Karaoke Club 
- Kloud Dance Club 
- LPS Club 
- Photography and Video Club 
- Producers Club
- Q Club 
- RPG 
- Sergeant Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club 
- Ski Club 
- Soccer Club 
- Swiftie Squad 
- Tea Party Club 
- The Comic Building Club 
- The Order of the White Lotus 
- The Society for Appreciating Fantastically Convoluted and Intricately Terrible TV Show Dialogue Appreciation Society  
- The Sweet Spot 
- Video Game Music Club 
- Volleyball Club

If you missed joining some clubs that you were interested in, you can contact Leadership in Room 200 for more information or contact the clubs you would like to join. 