---
#http://docs.csartisan.org/docs/contributing/

title: "Bat Boy: A Cast & Crew Perspective"
author: "Octavia Roberts"
categories: [ productions ]
image: ./assets/images/posts/bat-boy.jpg
imagecred: ""
tags: [ ]
date: 2024-10-04 12:10:00
---

CSArts has always been a unique space for the production of unique shows, and this year's "Bat Boy: The Musical" was no exception. Opening on September 26th, "Bat Boy" offered theatergoers a dark, twisted comedy featuring a terrifying main character, clad in bat prosthetics, greenish-gray body paint, and fake fangs. 

>It's a story about a half bat, half human, and how he adapts to society and how society adapts to him," 

said Grace Dominguez (MT '25), who played Bat Boy's sister, Shelly.

> [He] eventually becomes educated and more intelligent than the rest of the townsfolk and looks to join them in their society. [He] gets rejected by nearly all of them as they scapegoat [him] for their problems until [he] chooses to embrace the true persona of a monster that was forced upon [him]," 

said Ryan Backstrom (MT '26), who played the titular Bat Boy.

Grace Dominguez (MT '25), commented on the unique style of performance that the show demanded:

> The most difficult part [of the performance] was mastering this ‘style’ because the show … plays into archetypes of people," 

said Grace. 

There were many memorable moments in the show. Notably, those who saw the show will distinctly remember Bat Boy climbing, crawling, and creeping around the stage; however, what Ryan Backstrom distinctly remembers was the toll performing like that took on him:

> I had to miss conservatory at least once to go to the chiropractor because I was cramping and my neck hurt so bad. There were a couple of times in rehearsal where I couldn't sing the notes anymore because I had already been singing for two hours on top of having to make lots of loud noises without stopping," 

Ryan said.

On top of the extraneous performances from Ryan, the show was made challenging to produce because of its generous use of fake blood. Big moments in the musical are punctuated by untimely character deaths, complete with big red blood spots on characters' wardrobes where they were bitten or stabbed. 

May Acero (P&D '25), the show's Assistant Stage Manager, recalls having to slather Ryan in fake blood before the climax of Act 2 and how hardworking backstage crew had to mop up said fake blood after every show.

While cast and crew are sad to see the show come to a close, they are incredibly proud of the product of their hard work.

> I am honestly at peace with the show being over because I feel very artistically fulfilled after this production. Although I’m sad that it is over because I will miss the friends I made throughout the process, I’m just grateful that I was able to have this experience," 

said Maisie Brown (MT '25), who played Bat Boy's mother, Meredith.

> Seeing my close friends do such good work that I've never seen them do before was just so inspiring. It was a reminder that hard work always pays off. And how important it is to acknowledge others' growth, including your own." 

said Grace.

The backstage crew also had a blast with the production of the show, and the design of all of its elements. 

> This show was one of the best I've worked on and I will miss every single element. The smoothie of designs and collaborations was just really beautiful," 

said May.

And audience members agree that the cast and its amazing pit orchestra of the show put on a brilliant & hysterical spectacle of a two-act performance. Its catchy live band performance left those who heard it humming songs from the show, most of which being about learning to read, loving thy neighbor, or accepting your "beast" inside.