---
#http://docs.csartisan.org/docs/contributing/

title: "AAPI Month"
author: "Ayleen Park"
categories: [ events ]
image: ./assets/images/posts/aapi-month-25.jpg
imagecred: ""
tags: []
---
At CSArts, May is a packed month with a whirlwind of AP testing, finals, end-of-year conservatory showcases, and a mad dash towards summer. But in the middle of all the chaos, it’s also Asain American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) Heritage Month!

So what exactly is AAPI Month about? For some CSArts teachers, it’s a time of reflection, but also a reminder that celebrating culture shouldn’t just be reserved for one month out of the year. 

“AAPI month is a time for recognition,” said Mrs. Pham, who teaches Chemistry and AP Environmental Science. “But really it shouldn’t be any different from any other month or day. The achievements of any individual and culture should be celebrated at all times.” She also pointed out that when people think of the AAPI community, they usually think of East Asian cultures– like Chinese, Korean, Japanese, and maybe Vietnamese or Thai. But the term AAPI includes a whole range of communities, from South to Southeast Asia and the Pacific Islands. “There’s such an emphasis on East Asia, but AAPI spans way more than that,” Mrs. Pham added. “Cultures that aren’t always mentioned in the mainstream should still be highlighted.”

Over in the Integrated Arts Conservatory, Mrs. Tan, the Theatrical Makeup teacher, shared her admiration for Filipino artists and how their work helped her stay grounded in her identity. “I really admire several Filipino rappers like Ruby Ibarra, Faith Santilla, Rocky Rivera, Klassy, and Bambu.” Tan said. “Their music often highlights the struggles of growing up as Filipino immigrants or Filipino Americans. These artists encourage us to embrace our identity and stay connected to our roots.” One line from the song “US” really stuck with her:“Your DNA contains building blocks made from the mud of over 500 years of resistance and survival. And when you are ready, sis, we'll be right here.” As someone who’s both empathetic and introverted, Tan said that message hit home. “It reminds me it’s okay to take time to find your voice. That it’s still valid, even if you’re not ready to speak up yet. When asked how schools can do better in celebrating AAPI voices, she shared that more AAPI representation in leadership roles would make a huge difference. “We need events that reflect our experiences. Whether that’s addressing stereotypes like the model minority myth or offering support for multi-generational households and mental health,” she said. 

As the school year comes to an end and students push through the final stretch, AAPI month at CSArts reminds us that every story matters! Every culture deserves to be seen, and even in a month as busy as May, there’s always room to listen, learn and celebrate.