---
#http://docs.csartisan.org/docs/contributing/

title: "From Petals to Thorns: d4vd’s ‘Withered’ Cuts Deep"
author: "Mariam Ghazaryan"
categories: [ reviews ]
image: ./assets/images/posts/none/5.jpg
imagecred: ""
tags: []
---
D4vd is an American singer and songwriter known for hits like “Romantic Homicide” and “Feel It.” It is safe to say that the D4vd drought is over because on Apr 25, 2025, he released his new album, “Withered.” Following the motif of heartbreak, the newly released tracks focus on love and heartache.

In this album, he follows a pattern in his songs—falling in love, only for the relationship to end in hurt. This eventually leads to his last two tracks, 'Ghost' and 'Afterlife,' which, while showing his surrender to love, also hint at him finally finding something real. But just as things fall into place, tragedy hits the lovebirds at the worst possible time—whether that’s death or a breakup. D4vd's poetic genius is also reflected in his other albums, “Petals to Thorn” and “The Lost Petals.” When naming these albums, I noticed that he followed a transitional pattern, from the flowers growing thorns to the petals falling, to the flower dying.

Overall, in my opinion, his best track would either be “Afterlife” or “You Left Me First.” “Afterlife” is raw with emotion and has a nice gothic guitar that fits not only the vibe of the song, but also the vibe of the album. “You Left Me First” explores the theme of heartbreak and broke me when I first heard it with the lines “You loved me at my best, I loved you at your worst. How ironic is that when you left me first?” It carries emotional depth and painful bitterness bound to be on repeat, much like the rest of his album. 

Wondering when you can see D4vd on tour? He will be in L.A. Sep 20, 2025, on the Withered Tour!