---
#http://docs.csartisan.org/docs/contributing/

title: "Mural, Mural On The Wall"
author: "Pippin Langdon"
categories: [ events ]
image: ./assets/images/posts/va-mural-25.jpg
imagecred: ""
tags: [ sticky ]
---
Did you see the new beautiful work of art on the administration outside wall facing the gymnasium? It’s a mural capturing different parts of nature. The mural was designed by students, bringing to life the magical ideas of each student. The mural tells a story of what students can create when they put their minds together. 

John Scane, Mural Painting instructor, designs an annual project to teach his students how to create and design a mural. Then, they work together to incorporate each of their ideas into a finished project. The class, mainly made up of seniors, allows students to build their collaboration skills.

At the very start of the class students worked on their own sketches, incorporating their own styles and designs into the final product. “And at the end, everyone kinda put everything together like puzzles,” Sofie Davis said. “We split it into three groups so that everyone has one.” The class worked together to sketch, paint, and create their beautiful masterpiece before painting it on the wall beside the CSArts postcard mural. 

Mural Painting gives students the opportunity to learn how to collaborate to bring a magnificent creation to life. Through expressing their different viewpoints, art styles, and creative thinking, students learn life skills before they go out into the world. 

If you pass by a mural anywhere around the school, take a look at it. Think about how it makes you feel, as well as what it’s truly about. Cherish the memories, the artists’ perspective, and the beauty they provide the school.
