---
title: Mural Morale
author: Katia & Juliet
categories: Conservatory
image: ./assets/images/posts/mural\ morale1.jpg
date: 2026-02-27
---
In a school richly cultivated through creativity, a strive of continual artistic additions to the walls that enclose our campus should be strongly considered. Instead of designated areas where art is to be made, erased, and reconceived, the hard work of our community should be sustained throughout the campus. Heaps of blinding white, blank walls litter our campus, yet the decision was made to redact old art in place of new pieces. Bursts of colors and imagination gracing our learning environment encourages positive artistic and educational inclination. With the countless amount of highly gifted students adeptly trained in the arts, it would only make sense to harness their abilities onto the walls of our school. This will inspire future generations and allow students to permanently showcase their talents on a lasting canvas. Art is made to be shared and taken in. The expansion of areas open to collaborative murals would be a long- lasting representation of the vast range of the artistic spectrum cultivated at CSArts. Taking  ordinary things such as lockers or the undersides of sinks and turning them into pieces of individuality emphasizes  the creativity that flows in each classroom. A new tradition proposed forward, is the annual creation of a mural by the graduating classes, physicalizing each of their individual voices into pieces to be viewed for generations to come.Imposing  Creating this kind of tradition would keep a piece of the talents that have gone through this school and out into the world. “As a lover of art, the more art I see, especially when its student generated as we are at a creative school where students are really wanting to express themselves, I think it could potentially improve the atmosphere of the school... I'm all for seeing more art in spaces where there is none,” said Mr. Neil Mohamed, Graffiti and Chemistry teacher.